# MerOC Python-GUI tool - Download/manipulate netCDF files

## This tool simplify the CMEMS product's downloads/manipulations. The download mechanisms, which allow to subset the CMEMS products by bounding box, variables, depths and time coverage, are particularly useful because they allow to retrieve the data as one single file or in daily or montly chunks. The free registration to the CMEMS web portal (by Copernicus) is required to be able to use the download functions. The other fuction doesn't require any registration and can be fredomly used.

### Please to be noted that:

##### The download mechanism  is strictly related with the data time coverage. In fact for a very large time window (ex. years or for more than 2 months data) it is wiser use the "Download-monthly" method (it generates one file for month) while for few days the simple "Download" od "Download daily" method can be used (the former generates just one output file while the latter a file for each day). In the "Download daily" can be specified the HH:mm:ss for both the file starting and ending foreach daily file(This fuction can be used when for example interested to a recurrent time each day)

##### The "netCDF-processing" at the moment is able to convert the netCDF files in different formats (CSV, GRD and shape files) concatenate segments of data coming from the same dataset but at different time steps and split in fuction of the time. The splitting process can be useful in many occasions. At the moment, the files conversions are afflicted by the python memory records storage limitation which  can be analysed in the same time. Then slit the netCDF file can be a solution if the problem arises (the implememtation of parallel computing could be the solution - Using Dask for example). It is possible split the data by day(DD), months(YYYYMM) and years(YYYY) with the additional option to add a suffix to the data generated.
